---
title: Chapter 1
description: Of the Holy Scripture
---
<!--
## Section 1

Although the light of nature, and the works of creation and
providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to
leave men inexcusable;[1] yet are they not sufficient to give that knowledge
of God, and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation;[2] therefore it
pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself,
and to declare that his will unto his Church;[3] and afterwards, for the better
preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment
and comfort of the Church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice
of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing;[4] which
maketh the holy Scripture to be most necessary;[5] those former ways of God's
revealing his will unto his people being now ceased.[6]

## Proofs
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.-->

## Section 1 Study Questions
1. Who wrote the Bible?
2. To whom was it written?
3. Why was it written?
4. What makes the Bible necessary?
5. What can man learn from creation (natural revelation)?
6. What can man not learn from creation (requiring special revelation)?

## Section 2 and 3 Study Questions
1. What are the books of the Bible and how are they subdivided?
2. What does it mean that these books are to be the rule of faith and life?
3. Is there any value in reading the Apocrypha?

## Section 4 Study Questions
1. On what does the authority of the Bible depend?
2. Do Roman Catholics agree with this section of the WCF? Why or why not?
3. This section describes the doctrine of Sola Scriptura. Put that doctrine into your own
words.
4. An old saying goes, “God said it, I believe it, that settles it.” Do you agree with this
saying? Why or why not?

## Section 5 Study Questions
1. How does Scripture evidence itself to be the word of God?
2. Is the testimony of the church suﬃcient to convince a person of the truth of the Bible?
3. Can we convince someone of the “infallible truth and divine authority” of the Bible
through our winsome ways and intellectual prowess? What else is required?

## Section 6 Study Questions
1. Where do we find everything we need to know about God and our relationship to Him?
2. Are “all things necessary for His own glory, man’s salvation, faith, and life” expressly set
down in Scripture?
3. What would be an example of a “good and necessary consequence” that may be
deduced from Scripture?
4. Does the WCF allow for a private interpretation of Scripture?
5. What role does human tradition play in interpreting the Scriptures? Does human tradition
have any value?
6. Does the “Book of Church Order” (BCO) hold the authority of Scripture? What is it used
for then?
7. Does the BCO need to follow the “general rules of the Word”?

## Section 7 Study Questions

1. Is everything in the Bible easy to understand?
2. Is it necessary to have a Master’s of Divinity degree in order to truly know what is
necessary for salvation?

## Section 8 Study Questions

1. How do we know that the Bible is authentic?
2. Where should the church look to resolve “controversies of religion”?
3. What should we do if we don’t read Hebrew and Greek?
4. Why should we translate the Bible into the language of every nation?

## Section 9 Study Questions

1. What is the infallible rule of interpretation of Scripture?
2. When there is a question about the true and full sense of any Scripture, where can we
find the best commentary?

## Section 10 Study Questions

1. What is the supreme authority for the church?
2. Who wrote the Scriptures?


