---
title: Chapter 3
description: Of God's Eternal Decree
---

## Section 1 Study Questions
1. Who freely and unchangeably ordains whatsoever comes to pass?
2. How long has God been ordaining whatsoever comes to pass?
3. If God ordains all things, is he the author of sin?
4. If God ordains all things, do people have free will?
5. Give an example from Scripture where God brought good out of evil.
6. Are our lives exposed to the blind forces of chance or fate?

## Section 2 Study Questions
1. How does God know all things in advance?
2. Why do some people respond to the gospel and some do not?

## Section 3 Study Questions
1. Why does God predestine some men and angels to everlasting life while others are foreordained to everlasting death?
2. How can people who perish in hell add to the glory of God?
3. Which glorifies God more - predestining some to everlasting life or foreordaining others to everlasting death?

## Section 4 Study Questions
1. How can we increase the number of those preordained to eternal life?
2. In his "High Priestly Prayer," who was Jesus praying for? (John 17:9)
3. Is the final state of the church in our hands?

## Section 5 Study Questions
1. When did God predestine those who were elect?
2. What means did God use to bring the elect into everlasting glory?
3. What godly attribute cause Him to elect some to everlasting glory? (Sola gratia}
4. Did God look down the corridors of time to see who would respond to the gospel so that He would know who to elect? (Sola Deo gloria}
5. In light of the doctrine of predestination, should we pray for someone's salvation? Why or why not?"

## Section 6 Study Questions
1. What means does God use to bring the elect into glory? (Ordo salutis)
2. Place the following means in their logical order - Faith, glorification, election, foreknowledge, regeneration, repentance, effectual call, justification, sanctification.
3. Besides the elect, who else is saved?

## Section 7 Study Questions
1. In the case of the elect, God extends ________. In the case of the reprobate, God does not extend ________.
2. Is that fair?
3. Unto what does God ordain the reprobate?
4. What attribute of God is manifest in his passing by the reprobate?
5. What is your response to this section? Reflect on your response.
6. What are the elect saved from?

## Section 8 Study Questions
1. How does the doctrine of predestination lead to assurance for the Christian?
2. What can we do to be assured of our eternal election?
3. What attitudes should the doctrine of predestination bring in us?
4. How can we "obey the gospel?"



