---
title: Chapter 5
description: Of Providence
---

## Section 1 Study Questions
1. What does God the Creator uphold, direct, dispose, and govern?
2. Is God concerned with little things? Big things?
3. What are the attributes of God's Providence?"
4. Is God ever surprised by anything?
5. Is God's will ever forced to change to meet changing circumstances?
6. Which of God's attributes should we praise as a result of the doctrine of Providence?
7. Does our current culture's dominant worldview emphasize providence? Why do you think that is? 

## Section 2 Study Questions
1. Does the doctrine of Providence rule out secondary causes?
2. Can God bring good out of evil? Defend your answer from Scripture.

## Section 3 Study Questions
1. Is everything that happens a miracle?
2. Is anything that happens a miracle?

## Section 4 Study Questions
1. Does God's Providence extend to the fall? Other sins? Is this mere permission or is God's Providence binding?
2. Does this mean that God is the author of sin?
3. Does God approve of sin?
4. Does the sin in the world cancel out God's power, wisdom, or goodness?

## Section 5 Study Questions
1. Does God ever allow the elect to face temptations? 
2. Why does he do that?
3. In this section the Confession refers to the elect as "His own children." Do you think there is any significance that the authors chose that phrase?
4. Have you ever faced your own "dark night of the soul"? What was your heavenly Father showing you?
5. Is our salvation in jeopardy when that happens? Why or why not?
6. Which process in the ordo salutis is in view here?

## Section 6 Study Questions
1. How does God deal with people who "suppress the truth in unrighteousness"? (Rom 1:24,26,28)
2. In what way is God's punishment for sin a kind of "poetic justice"?
3. Does the process described in this section happen only to those outside the covenant community or can it happen to those inside the covenant community (the visible church)?

## Section 7 Study Questions
1. Does God's providence extend to all creatures? (General Providence)
2. How does God's providence di\uFB00er when extended to his Church? (Special Providence)
3. Does this special providence guarantee the existence of any particular church or denomination? What does it guarantee?

