---
title: Introduction
description: Welcome to the Westminster Confession of Faith study.
---

What do Americans believe about God, salvation, ethics, and the Bible? Ligonier Ministries
and LifeWay Research partnered to find out. Every two years, they take the theological
temperature of the United States to help Christians better understand today’s culture and to
equip the church with better insights for discipleship.

The trend shown by these studies is depressing. Our culture is increasingly ignorant of
fundamental Biblical truth. This will come as no surprise to any follower of Christ, especially
those who are from the Reformed tradition.

Why is this so? Many reasons could be given, including the the secular indoctrination of the
government school system, the “paganization” of the media (both entertainment and news),
and the fact that our lives are increasingly dominated by the political process as the primary
means of cultural improvement.

I suspect the deeper cause can be found in the Ligonier survey itself. Those studies show
that the decline in Biblical understanding in the broader culture is mirrored by the decline in
those calling themselves “Evangelicals.” Even within Reformed circles, understanding of the
Biblical narrative appears weaker as time passes.

So which is the cart and which is the horse? Is the culture leading the church into apostasy,
or is the church failing in its mission to lead the culture into truth?
I believe it is the latter. We are called to be a blessing to the nations, making disciples by
teaching them all that Christ commanded (Mt 28:18-20). But how can we do that when we
ourselves don’t bathe ourselves in the deep truths of God’s Word? If we fail in that
fundamental calling we will too often simply oﬀer the world its own bromides sprinkled with
some Gospel pleasantries.

I have written this study guide to help the student of the Westminster Confession of Faith
(WCF) to maintain their focus while wading through its many chapters and sections. The
study guide’s method is to ask questions to assist the student in answering three basic
questions:
1. What are the Westminster divines saying?
2. What does this mean in its biblical and historic context?
3. How do I apply these truths in my life and more broadly, how should the church apply
them to its ministry?

I would encourage the user of this guide to read each chapter section of the WCF and its
“proof texts” multiple times, striving to answer these three questions for yourself before
completing the study guide questions.
May the Lord bless you by transforming your mind (Romans 12:2) as you undertake your
study.

## User's manual

- Use the left column to click on the chapter you are studying 
- Each chapter has sections below it
- Each section has study questions to help you
- You can also use the forward/backward buttons on the bottom of each paget to navigate

<!-- You can start playing with this template in your browser using our online sandboxes:

::u-button
---
class: mr-4
icon: i-simple-icons-stackblitz
label: Play on StackBlitz
target: _blank
to: https://stackblitz.com/github/nuxt-ui-pro/saas/
---
::

::u-button
---
class: mt-2 sm:mt-0
icon: i-simple-icons-codesandbox
label: Play on CodeSandbox
target: _blank
to: https://codesandbox.io/s/github/nuxt-ui-pro/saas/
---
::

Or open [Nuxt UI playground](https://ui.nuxt.com/playground). -->
